This repository is just a placeholder to backup my experimentations on my Addex
Weather USB station (vendorId:0x04f3, productId:0x0001).


Whole story
--------------

For my 27th birthday, I was offered by my sister a "weather station", that has
to be linked to a computer using a usb port. Just great, instead that no
manual, nor driver were provided.

The only tip I got was a sticker on the screen, with "please download the
manual and driver at ftp://[random IPv4]/" (not joking).

Obviously, there was only a setup.exe on the FTP, so I had to dig in by myself
if I wanted to be able to do something with the device on my sheevaplug
ARM-based linux.

This is still a Work-In-Progress state, but you can find in this repository
some materials of my current efforts to be able to "discuss" with it.


State of the art
-------------------

The piece of software provided in the previous FTP site is simple:

- A Windows driver

- A "userspace" interface, that queries MSN weather service, gets the XML, and
  sends it to the device


After having snooped a bit the communication between Windows and the device,
nothing is really complicated. The driver just sends a 27byte-long URB to the
weather station, that updates its screen with the informations sent.

Requirements
----------------

You will need python-usb module (not the debian sid package which is outdated,
make sure to remove it before trying to use the python script). It can be
installed with:

$ sudo easy_install pyusb

You may need to be root, or configure udev correctly, in order to launch the
python script provided.

Some explanations on the files
-----------------------------------

- msn-fetch is a directory containing some sample scripts that gets the XML
  supposedly parsed by the userspace software. It contacts the microsoft
  servers in order to get infos of the weather that should be provided to the
  device afterwards. Chambery and Paris are 2 towns in France, where I live.

- python-sample contains a python script that tries to send a URB request, in
  order to update the weather station.

- reverse-engineering-materials contains some random notes of my own, trying to
  understand what was going on into the USB packets sent to the device. Sorry,
  it's in french, but "nuage" means "cloudy", "soleil" means "sunny", "orage"
  means "stormy" (?) ... I did not figure out yet the whole protocol anyway.
  There is also a dump (cap file) of the communication between Windows and the
  weather station during an update.


TODO
------

A GUI which looks like the one provided by the vendor ? A linux kernel driver ?
Who knows ...

And ?
--------- 

Since the station can print on its screen some nice icons related to the
weather, why not using it to monitor a continuous integration platform ... Just
some random ideas ...



